- [Instructor] The final thing
that I really want to talk about
before we jump into actually running a lot of code here
is the concept of CRUD when dealing with databases.
Now CRUD is an acronym for the four main functions
that you do to data in a database:
create, read, update, delete.
Now this is all part
of the data manipulation language, or DML.
Most SQL statements, at least most of them
that a developer will operate with on a regular basis,
are extensions of these four main functions.
Now, I have a few thoughts here
about how to get really good at writing SQL,
especially when you're dealing with CRUD operations.
First and foremost is to learn SQL itself.
A developer needs to understand how SQL works,
how it operates, and how to optimize it.
I do also believe that it's important
at least at the base level for developers
to learn a little bit about data theory.
And more important than that is to learn relational algebra.
Learning this allows you to understand
how complex join patterns can actually
cause data anomalies with what is returned.
In addition, these complex join paths allow you to focus on
what is actually slowing down your data operation.
We always hear about striving for third normal form,
and in reality, third normal form is great
until you actually need to grab a whole bunch
of data across a lot of data tables.
I've actually seen higher performance systems
with completely de-normalized data
when you're dealing with things like printing,
especially printing operations at high volume things
like pharmacies and other healthcare situations.
I also encourage you as a developer to understand indices.
Database indexes are what really allow you
to manipulate how rapidly you can get your data.
And if you understand that
and can communicate that to your DBAs,
sometimes you can come up with more optimal solutions
in dealing with databases.
Now, that first operation creating data.
This is typically seen in the form of an insert statement.
Now it's important to know that any database constraints
that are put on your schema must be honored when inserting.
If you require a customer ID when you insert an order,
that customer ID must be there
and the customer record itself must also exist,
assuming that you have a foreign key constraint.
Isolation levels can impact results.
Sometimes you will insert data,
and if your isolation level isn't set up correctly,
you can insert data on top of it
because it hasn't actually been committed to the database.
Insert statements are not idempotent operations
in most situations.
Now reading data.
This is often seen in the form of a select statement.
It can be a simple table read,
or it can be a multi table read using complex join paths.
Constraints are not important until you do join operations.
Once again, isolation levels can impact consistency
when you read data that hasn't been committed,
or you can get dirty reads.
Reads are always idempotent,
and select for update is something
that you need to understand
when you're doing high throughput systems
where you actually need to lock tables for an update,
things like bank transactions or medical record transactions
that are very critical to make sure
that you lock that record.
Now updating data.
This is often sitting in the form of an update statement.
Constraints can cause update anomalies,
and often you try to remove those in your database design.
Isolation levels as always can impact results
of your update statements.
And an update should be idempotent
when it's executed over and over again,
because the update statement itself contains
the new tuple structure.
And finally we're going to talk about the delete operations.
And this is often seen in the form of a delete statement.
Constraints can cause errors or update anomalies,
so they need to be managed and understood.
As we've seen before isolation levels can impact deletes.
You can get a dirty read that you try to delete
and the delete doesn't work
because the data actually hasn't been committed from swap.
And after the first execution, deletes are idempotent.
Obviously the first execution is not
because it removes the data.
This is all we're going to talk about
with credit operations from the high-level perspective.
We're going to jump into code now and actually start
executing these operations in our database.